# battleship
This is a terminal-based Battleship game I completed for the Devslopes Academy. As such, I used only vanilla JavaScript, Node.js, & the NPM package 'readline-sync'. To see how it works, you can download my code & run it in Node.

## partOne.js
In this document, I created a dumbed-down version of Battleship. There are only two ships, each consisting of one unit, placed in one of 6 grid spots. Upon starting of the program, the ships are placed & the user is prompted to enter a location to strike. I have checks in place, ensuring the user inputs a location with a letter coordinate from A-C & a number coordinate of 1-10. If the user misses, they are notified & prompted to enter another location. If they enter an invalid location or one they've already input, it also counts as a miss & they're prompted to enter another location. If the user makes a hit, the ship is sunk, & they're notified of such & that only one more ship remains. Upon sinking of both ships, the user is asked if they'd like to play again. If 'y' is input, the game starts again from the beginning. If they input 'n', the program ends. In this version, it's only a matter of time until the game is over lol.

## partTwo.js
To start the game, the user presses almost any key. They are greeted, & the ships are all placed by the placeAllShips() function, which combines all the separate functions I wrote to place each type of ship (two-, three-, four-, & five-unit). These individual functions are called inside placeAllShips() however many times we'd like to place them in the game (e.g. if we want there to be 2 three-unit ships, we call placeThreeUnitShip() twice).

Each individual ship-placement function randomly places unit one at a letter coordinate of A-J & a number coordinate of 1-10. Then, I define logic to place the following units of the ship, placing each unit next to the previous one & making sure that no unit's letter coordinate is a letter past 'J' in the alphabet & no number is over 10. I have functions that makes the units in a ship share either the same number coordinate or the same letter coordinate, & I randomly call one upon placement of the ship so the ship will be placed horizontally or vertically.

I have also written logic that makes it impossible for any coordinate to be occupied by two different ships. If an already-occupied coordinate is given to a sequential ship, the coordinates for that ship will be redetermined until they are unique. I used a while loop for this.

Now for the user-interaction part: after defining all the individual ship-placement functions & putting them all inside placeAllShips(), I define some necessary variables, the hitOrMiss() function, which tells the user if they hit or miss a ship with their input strike & handles any potential outcomes of the strike, & the getStrike() function, which asks the user to input a coordinate to strike. If the strike doesn't correspond to an occupied location, it's a miss & the user is asked to input another location to strike. A similar thing happens if the user inputs any particular thing more than once. If the user hits a ship, they are notified & asked to input another value if not all ships have been sunk. If the user makes a hit resulting in the sinking of a ship, they are also notified of such & of how many ships remain. If they have destroyed all ships, the user is asked if they'd like to play again. If 'y' is input, the game starts again from the beginning. If they input 'n' or any other key, the program ends.

Please see the comments in the files for more-detailed information.
